Add support for managing offsets in Connect (#121)
strimzi/proposals: 075-connector-offsets-support.md

The structure of the `alterOffsets` property will be as below, to allow it to be extended in future if required:

```yaml
alterOffsets:
  fromConfigMap:
    name: my-connector-offsets
```

Notes:
* The format of the request body will be validated to make sure it is valid JSON, but the operator won't perform any further validation, instead relying on the API endpoint to return a reasonable error message.
* If the request to the Connect API fails the operator will add a condition to the KafkaConnector CR status with a warning message that includes the response from the API, e.g.
  ```yaml
  - lastTransitionTime: "2024-06-04T08:44:15.913138115Z"
    message: Failed to alter the connector offsets due to "message from endpoint".
    reason: AlterOffsets
    status: "True"
    type: Warning
  ```
  The operator will leave the annotation on the KafkaConnector resource until either the patch operation succeeds, or the user removes the annotation.
  This means the operator will retry the patch on every reconciliation, allowing the condition to remain present for the user to see.

> * Strimzi will shortcut and automatically fail to do the reset if the KafkaConnector resource does not have it's `state` set as `stopped`.

Reviewer: Typo?

```suggestion
* Strimzi will shortcut and automatically fail to alter the offsets if the KafkaConnector resource does not have it's `state` set as `stopped`.
```

Author: Yeah, good spot

The operations are:
* List offsets.
* Alter offsets.
* Reset offsets.

The list offsets operation uses a ConfigMap for the output.
The alter offsets operation uses a ConfigMap for the input.

### Request/Response from the API endpoints

The response body received when using the GET endpoint, and the request body used when calling the PATCH endpoint have identical structures to allow users to easily fetch and then alter offsets.
The structure of the body is different for source and sink connectors.
This is because sink connectors use regular Kafka offsets, whereas source connectors determine their own structure for offsets.
This difference is reflected in the approaches outlined in this proposal.

Source connector format is:
```
{
  "offsets": [
    {
      "partition": {
        // Connector-defined source partition
      },
      "offset": {
        // Connector-defined source offset
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Sink connector format is:
```
{
  "offsets": [
    {
      "partition": {
        "kafka_topic": // Kafka topic
        "kafka_partition": // Kafka partition
      },
      "offset": {
        "kafka_offset": // Kafka offset
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### New annotation

> All three actions will make use of a new annotation called `strimzi.io/connectorOffsets`.

Reviewer 2: most of our annotations are using a format like this `strimzi.io/connector-offsets`. I would change this way (here and of course everywhere it's mentioned again).

Reviewer 3: +1 camel case looks very weird here

Author: Good point, I've updated it

The possible values will be `list`, `alter` and `reset`.

### Listing offsets

To list the current offsets the user will annotate the KafkaConnector resource with the new annotation `strimzi.io/connectorOffsets` set to `list`.
After the annotation is added, on the next reconciliation the operator will fetch the current offsets and create a Kubernetes ConfigMap containing the JSON response.
The operator will add an owner reference to the Kubernetes ConfigMap pointing to the KafkaConnector resource that was annotated.

> If the ConfigMap already exists the operator will replace the data with the updated data and not add an owner reference.

Reviewer 3: Assuming by "the data" you mean "the `data`", then we're saying we'll obliterate any other keys in the ConfigMap. It might be worth calling this out, even if only by monospacing the `data`.

Author: Yes, I've adjusted the wording

The structure of the `listOffsets` property will be as below, to allow it to be extended in future if required:

```yaml
listOffsets:
  toConfigMap:
    name: my-connector-offsets
```

The ConfigMap will contain a single entry called `offsets.json` that contains the response received from the GET /connectors/{connector}/offsets endpoint.

For example for a source connector the ConfigMap might look like:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-source-connector-offsets
data:
  offsets.json: |
    {
      "offsets": [
        {
          "partition": {
            // Connector-defined source partition
          },
          "offset": {
             // Connector-defined source offset
          }
        }
      ]
    }
```

For a sink connector it might look like:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-sink-connector-offsets
data:
  offsets.json: |
    {
      "offsets": [
        {
          "partition": {
            "kafka_topic": "my-topic"
              "kafka_partition": 2
          },
          "offset": {
            "kafka_offset": 4
          }
        }
      ]
    }

> ```

Reviewer 2: both the above ConfigMap examples are missing the "owner reference to the Kubernetes ConfigMap pointing to the KafkaConnector resource that was annotated" you mentioned before. Maybe you can add it?

To alter offsets the user will annotate the KafkaConnector resource with the new annotation `strimzi.io/connectorOffsets` set to `alter`.
After the annotation is added, on the next reconciliation the operator will call the PATCH /connectors/{connector}/offsets endpoint to alter the offsets.
Once the patch is complete the operator will then remove the annotation from the KafkaConnector CR.

The operator will read in the entry called `offsets.json` from the ConfigMap.
The entry name matches the entry name used in the list operation, so that a user can list offsets, then edit the ConfigMap the operator created, then request the offsets be altered using that same ConfigMap.

The name of the ConfigMap the operator will use to construct the request body will be set by the user in the KafkaConnector CR.
The KafkaConnector CRD will be updated to contain a new property called `alterOffsets` that must be set for the `strimzi.io/connectorOffsets=alter` annotation to take effect.
The structure of the `alterOffsets` property will be as below, to allow it to be extended in future if required:

```yaml
alterOffsets:
  fromConfigMap:
    name: my-connector-offsets
```

Notes:

> * The format of the request body will be validated to make sure it is valid JSON, but the operator won't perform any further validation, instead relying on the API endpoint to return a reasonable error message.

Reviewer 3: 1. What does "valid JSON" mean here? I guess it must mean "syntactically valid JSON", because source connectors have an unknown schema for their offset JSON. But it would be good to be explicit in the doc. 
2. Let's also be explicit that `offsets.json` being absent from the ConfigMap is also treated as an error. 
3. I suppose there's also no harm in saying that it's not an error if the ConfigMap contains keys others than `offsets.json`

Author: 1. Correct, I've added the word "syntactically" to be more explicit.
2. Added
3. Added
